---
title: "Advanced OLAP topics"
description:  How selecting OLAP changes things
sidebar_label: "Advanced OLAP Engine"
sidebar_position: 17
---
## Advanced OLAP topics
>>check the contents here....

In our Basics series, we briefly brushed over the topic of OLAP engines. As we have been using DuckDB as our underlying OLAP engine, we haven't mentioned any of the settings that you would need to modify if you wanted to used another engine.

In the case that you are interested in using ClickHouse as your OLAP engine, I would recommened heading over to our Rill and Clickhouse guide. As a lot of the information overlaps with this course, you can skim through the beginning making note of the specific changes you will need to make to the `rill.yaml` or `dashboard.yaml` to set the OLAP engine.

> insert screenshot of rill.yaml with changes 

### What changes when I switch OLAP engines?
Unlike DuckDB where we support SQL modeling directly via the UI, using an external OLAP engine requires some external preparation before importing the tables into Rill.

> insert ss or gif of Clickhouse connector and view change.


Along with that, on the metric view layer, there are some changes on the aggregation functions. As this will now be running on the OLAP engine that you have defined, you will need to check the syntax and whether it is correct for the OLAP engine of choice. 


### Connection issues 
When using DuckDB, as the underlying database is directly embedded, there will rarely be any issues connecting and loading data. However, when connecting to an *external table*, you might run into some issues connecting to that source. For example, ClickHouse has a default setting to snooze an environment if there is no activity after a set period of time. This creates another layer of complexity when working with data.


### Why would I want to use an external table?
Based on our testing of OLAP engines, each have a place depending on the amount of data that you are processing. We have found that DuckDB works well with data until ~50-100GB. After that there is a drop in performance, but we have found the Clickhouse works well to cover that. However, in terms of colossal amounts of data, XXTB+, we have found there are some limitations here, as well. For a more extensive explanation of our performance tests, please see the following article.

> insert link to performance article, whenever it out.


import DocsRating from '@site/src/components/DocsRating';

---
<DocsRating />
