---
date: 2022-09-15
image: https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/5587788/190299248-7bc2e6f2-2aee-4415-aa38-dda784f75f6f.png

---

# Rill 0.10 – Expanded leaderboard metrics and nightly binaries

:::note
⚡ Rill Developer is a tool that makes it effortless to transform your datasets with SQL and create powerful, opinionated dashboards. These are our release notes for our `0.10` release, still in Tech Preview.

[To try out Rill Developer, check out these instructions](/get-started/install) and [let us know over on Discord](https://discord.gg/2ubRfjC7Rh) if you encounter any problems or have ideas about how to improve Rill Developer!
:::

In our 0.6 release of Rill Developer we introduced dashboard leaderboards that present the top 7 dimension values for a given measure. Understanding the leads of each dimension helps us understand major players, but it is is hard to go deeper when you can only select 1 metric at a time for the very top of the pack. In the 0.10 release of Rill Developer we introduce *expanded leaderboard tables* to help you make these comparisons easily and focus on the impact of more segments.

- **Expanded leaderboard metrics —** When we are exploring aggregated measures we want to be able to compare dimension values and see additional values beyond the top 7 when they are focused on a specific dimension’s impact. Our new dimension tables expand your leaderboards to provide a deeper view into all of your metrics for the top 250 values. You can use these values as filters.

- **Nightly binaries —** Want to stay on the bleeding edge of our development? We have added support for nightly builds of our fast install binaries. You can easily switch between the [production release](/get-started/install) and the nightly build by re-running the script for the version you want. Try it yourself using our nightly build script:

  `curl -s [https://cdn.rilldata.com/install.sh](https://cdn.rilldata.com/install.sh) | bash -s -- --nightly`

  We don’t yet have nightly builds for M1 Mac (arm64), so if you are running a M1 Mac and trying to install a nightly build, the script will ask if you want to install the x64 nightly build instead. This version will work on a M1 Mac but will be using Apples’s Rosetta 2 emulation, so you might notice performance difference between this binary and the native arm64 builds we have for the release versions.
