---
date: 2022-10-14
image: https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/5587788/195886229-a21f30bb-8f1a-4538-bab9-12bccd54b704.png


---

# Rill 0.12 – Enhanced dimension exploration with value searches and exclude filters

:::note
⚡ Rill Developer is a tool that makes it effortless to transform your datasets with SQL and create powerful, opinionated dashboards. These are our release notes for our `0.12` release, still in Tech Preview.

[To try out Rill Developer, check out these instructions](/get-started/install) and [let us know over on Discord](https://discord.gg/2ubRfjC7Rh) if you encounter any problems or have ideas about how to improve Rill Developer!
:::



In our latest release, we are taking opinionated dashboards to the next level with enhanced flexibly to search and filter all dimension values, not just category leaders and laggers. It is nice to know who the heavy hitters are, but sometimes the head and tail can crowd out meaningful insights from segments that are in the middle-of-the pack. Having flexibility in quickly finding the segment you care about - or excluding the one you don’t care about - is critical in thinking about data at the speed of conversation.  

We are excited to introduce two new features to this end: the ability to search all dimension values  in filter pills and leaderboard detail tables as well as the ability to include or exclude what you have selected within each leaderboard. Together, these two features make a powerful combination that will help you find the right insights.


- **Leaderboard dimension value searches -** When a dimension has *lots* of possible values it can be challenging to know to know what unique values are available because leaderboards only show the top or bottom 7-250 values by default. You shouldn’t need to filter your transformed One Big Table using `ILIKE` statements to expose the middle-of-the-pack segments in your dashboard. This creates friction in thinking through filter segments in dashboards or modeling data. Our new search fields make these data points much more accessible by helping you find exactly what you need. Look for them in both filter pills at the top of the dashboard and in detail tables.
- **Excluding dimension values -** Our current implementation of leaderboards allows you to select values of interest to be included, excluding everything that is unselected. However, when there are many value options the fastest way to answer your question might be to select the things you *do not* want to see. With the addition of an include / exclude toggle for each leaderboard’s selections you will be able to get to the insights you care about with much less clicking around.
- **Better routing errors -** Our [last release](https://docs.rilldata.com/notes/0.11) introduced routes to each screen so you can use browser navigation to move between views. This version of Rill updates routes to provide clearer feedback inside the application when you encounter a routing error. If you do encounter a routing error, you can always click the Rill logo iin the upper left hand corner to find your way back home.
