---
date: 2022-11-09
image: https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/5587788/200923199-019e6042-94c1-4363-8169-3abbe4366301.png


---

# Rill 0.14 – Remote sources with https and better errors

:::note
⚡ Rill Developer is a tool that makes it effortless to transform your datasets with SQL and create powerful, opinionated dashboards. These are our release notes for our `0.14` release, still in Tech Preview.

[To try out Rill Developer, check out these instructions](/get-started/install) and [let us know over on Discord](https://discord.gg/2ubRfjC7Rh) if you encounter any problems or have ideas about how to improve Rill Developer!
:::


In this release we focus on making even more data sources accessible and fresh within Rill. We have expanded the functionality of our source connections to include both _compressed files_ and public data sources that can be accessed through _http(s)_. 

- **Remote connections to http(s) —** In [release 0.13](https://docs.rilldata.com/notes/0.13) we introduced remote connections to create sources from parquet and csv files stored in GCS or S3. In this version of Rill we add the ability to connect to public http(s) sources and refresh them with the click of a button. This can be very useful when you are trying to pick up a dataset that is posted online by a third party but is not available in your data warehouse.
- **Remote connections work with gzipped files —** We often compress data files when we store them to reduce the size of the file and the cost associated with data storage. With this release we support the ability to directly pull in gzipped files without having to decompress them first.
- **Appropriate 404 errors** — When we introduced routing in [release 0.11](https://docs.rilldata.com/notes/0.11) we changed the way we were handling error messages. We heard you when you told us that the 404 errors it introduced were confusing didn’t help you get to the next step in your analysis. To fix this we took another close look at our error handling and ensured that modeling and dashboard validation errors were presented instead of routing errors with specific messages that help you troubleshoot.
