---

date: 2023-01-05


---

# Rill 0.18 – Happy New Year from Rill!

:::note
⚡ Rill Developer is a tool that makes it effortless to transform your datasets with SQL and create powerful, opinionated dashboards.

To [try out Rill Developer, check out these instructions](/#pick-an-install-option) and [let us know over on Discord](https://bit.ly/3bbcSl9) if you encounter any problems or have ideas about how to improve Rill Developer!
:::


Happy New Year everyone! This release of Rill Developer is fairly light, given that many of us were out celebrating the holidays after having a productive 2022. We do have a number of small improvements and bug fixes to share in our 0.18 release as we look to 2023 holds:

- **A new workspace header –** Each release, we’re making one small change toward a much bigger refactor of our application hierarchy. This release will have something much more visible; a new header in the workspace.
- **Tweaking spacing –** Given that we moved to using Inter as our UI typeface, we’re continuing to readjust the design of the application to accommodate the additional space. It feels luxurious and we’re growing into it. :)
- **Numerous bug fixes –** When we made ambitious changes to our application by adding artifacts that represent the data to dashboard journey we had to touch most of the application. It was inevitable that there would be a few bugs and rough edges. We are continuing to squash these bugs thanks to your feedback. Are you still seeing anything janky in this release? Let us know on [Discord](https://bit.ly/3bbcSl9).