---

date: 2023-12-18
image: https://github.com/rilldata/rill/assets/5587788/b30486f6-002a-445d-8a1b-955b6ec0066d

---

# Rill 0.38 - Embedded Analytics, Snowflake Connector and Themes 😱

:::note
⚡ Rill Developer is a tool that makes it effortless to transform your datasets with SQL and create fast, exploratory dashboards.

To [try out Rill Developer, check out these instructions](/get-started/install) and [let us know over on Discord](https://discord.gg/2ubRfjC7Rh) if you encounter any problems or have ideas about how to improve Rill Developer!
:::
  
Today we are happy to drop some early holiday presents to all of our Rill users! 🎁🎁  
In the spirit of more this release brings you just that, more of everything. Serving Rill content in more places, ingesting from more sources and more colors!

## Embedded Analytics

Now you can, securely, embed Rill content into your own solutions such as Salesforce or provide analytics directly to your customers from within your own product or portal.  
With a few lines of code you can easily request a secure iframe url to your Rill dashboard that inherits features such as data security and user attribute templating. Explore our code samples and read more by visiting our docs page [here](../../integrate/embedding)

## Snowflake Connector

Got Snowflake? We have a connector for you!  
Ingest data directly from Snowflake via the standard Rill UI without any fuss, plug in a SQL statement and a set of credentials and you are good to go.
Read more about how to configure the Snowflake connector by visiting our docs page [here](/build/connectors/data-source/snowflake).

## Themes

This release contains our first release of Themes. In keeping with Rill tradition you can now define a theme resource kind that allows you to define primary and secondary colors. These colors will change the look and feel of your dashboards, either deploy themes to all your dashboards via project defaults in `rill.yaml` or on a per dashboard basis. We look forward to your feedback on Themes as we are looking into how to provide even more options for you in the future.

Read more about how to configure Themes by visiting our docs page [here](../../reference/project-files/themes).


## Available Time Ranges

Rill has always treated time as an essential part of the product and with this release you will get even more capabilities around customizing selectable time periods and comparison periods.  
The `dashboard.yaml` introduces a new property called [available_time_ranges](/reference/project-files/explore-dashboards) that allows you define time ranges in [this format](../../reference/rill-iso-extensions).
You can either define this on a dashboard level or roll it out to all our dashboards via project defaults.

## Bug Fixes and Misc
- Added support for the `enum` data type in our Postgres connector
- Users should now be able to see the last refreshed time of a dashboard directly via the top nav bar
- Columns in Time Detailed Dimension tables should now be resizable
- Added additional hardening to project resets while UI is open
- Added additional hardening in the backend to avoid potential deadlocks during source refreshes
- Added additional hardening around editing scheduled reports
- Added clearer error handling to our Motherduck connector
- Added further hardening to edge cases involving comparisons and no comparison mode
- Addressed an issue that could occur when hovering over precise data points in line charts
- Improved responsiveness when updating model SQL
- Improved UI handling for long project names with underscores
- Fixed an issue where BigNumeric columns in BigQuery would trigger an error during source import
- Fixed a bug related to the xlsx export occasionally producing an empty file
- Fixed a bug where a parser error could be triggered if the model SQL contains a comment at the end
- Fixed a bug related to the spinner not being visible when refreshing a source