---

date: 2024-01-09
image: https://github.com/rilldata/rill/assets/5587788/b30486f6-002a-445d-8a1b-955b6ec0066d

---

# Rill 0.39 - Vacations, spending time away from keyboard and new ways of filtering

:::note
⚡ Rill Developer is a tool that makes it effortless to transform your datasets with SQL and create fast, exploratory dashboards.

To [try out Rill Developer, check out these instructions](../../install) and [let us know over on Discord](https://bit.ly/3bbcSl9) if you encounter any problems or have ideas about how to improve Rill Developer!
:::
  
Today we are happy to drop some early holiday presents to all of our Rill users! 🎁🎁  
In the spirit of more this release brings you just that, more of everything. Serving Rill content in more places, ingesting from more sources and more colors!

## Add Filter

## Auto-suggestion of models

## Daylight savings support

## Improved DuckDB and Motherduck connector support

## Bug Fixes and Misc
- Updated project status page to reflect both the most recent time when a source or model has been refreshed _and_ the most recent time the project files in Github have been synced.
- Added further hardening and resiliency in the runtime backend to prevent potential OOM or deadlock scenarios related to DuckDB.
- Added dimension name and percent of total to charts.
- Added further consistency in colors being used in themes.
- Fixed scenario where the horizontal splitters in the UI could overflow its parent container.
- Improved the responsiveness and rendering of timeseries charts.
- Improved error handling and hardening related to saved views on dashboards.
- Addressed a bug where searching in a dimension table would sometimes return a 400 error in very specific scenarios.
- Added support for templating and use of variables in source YAML files.
- Improved the design of our Scheduled Report dropdown menus.
- Fixed a bug when using the "View as" functionality in the Cloud UI.
- Added clearer messaging when autogenerating dashboards.
- Added ability to define arbitrary, non-aggregrate dimension expressions via the `expression` property in the dashboard YAML.
- Added support to resize the _Model Data_ dashboard component / view in the Rill Developer UI.
- Fixed bug related to the Shift-click to copy functionality not working as expected.
