---

date: 2024-05-01
image: https://github.com/rilldata/rill/assets/5587788/b30486f6-002a-445d-8a1b-955b6ec0066d

---

# Rill 0.44 - Pinot Connector, file explorer / flexible project direoctory, dashboard previews, alternative visualizations (beta), sudo-less install paths, and more

:::note
⚡ Rill Developer is a tool that makes it effortless to transform your datasets with SQL and create fast, exploratory dashboards. Rill Cloud can then help to enable shared collaboration at scale.

To [try out Rill Developer, check out these instructions](/home/install) and [join us over on Discord](https://bit.ly/3bbcSl9) to meet the team behind the product as well as other users. In addition, once you have a project set up in Rill Developer, you can then [deploy the project](/deploy/existing-project) and collaborate with others / invite your team members by [logging into Rill Cloud](https://ui.rilldata.com)!
:::

## Pinot Connector
Apache Pinot has been a data source we wanted to support for quite a while and now we do! Let us know what you think!

## File Explorer refactor and support for flexible project directories


## Dashboard previews


## Alternative visualizations (beta)


## Sudo-less installs


## Bug Fixes and Misc
- All newly deployed projects on Rill Cloud will now use a single directory for all instance data. (*Note: This change will result in an one-time reset of all existing deployed projects but should otherwise not impact production!*)
- Removed the beta flag from the pivot table feature set.
- Fixed an issue where `VARCHAR` and `INTEGER` columns can no longer be unioned without an explicit cast (as a result of this [breaking DuckDB change](https://duckdb.org/2024/02/13/announcing-duckdb-0100.html#breaking-sql-changes) in DuckDB v0.10 to implicit cast behavior to `VARCHAR`).
- Fixed a bug where adding a single metric to columns in the pivot table does not render a total for the metric.
- Added warning and timeout messages when export limits are exceeded.
- Added safeguards against creating a scheduled report or alert on a dashboard when no timestamp column is present.
- Corrected required fields when adding a new dimension to a dashboard.
- Fixed issue where sources couldn't be edited and saved while being refreshed.
- Fixed bug where scheduled reports that were created could disappear and stop running after a period of time.
- Fixed bug where the back button was not always working correctly when a sub-range is selected but not zoomed in on from the time dimension detail.
- Non-admin users should now be able to remove themselves from organizations and projects on Rill Cloud.
- Improved the sizing of measure columns in pivot tables, including the ability to resize columns.
- Fixed issue where the search bar was not available in leaderboards for Druid-backed dashboards.
- Exports should now respect the user search input and filter results accordingly.
- Included defaults for `available_time_ranges` in our dashboard YAML configuration.
- Fixed bug where `rill-QTD` would not always populate correctly when specified in `available_time_ranges` for a dashboard.
- Improved Druid query performance by removing the limit for Druid exactify toplist queries.
- Fixed issue where the Amazon Redshift icon would not render correctly when adding a source while using Safari.
- Fixed issue where the `email_verified` property was not getting properly passed in the OAuth flow when using SAML authentication.
- Added SAML SSO as an available login option when logging into Rill Cloud.
- Improved the Alert detail page so that the time range being used is now shown as part of the Filters section.
- Fixed bug where returning no data for a measure filter would actually result in a full dashboard being shown instead of an empty dashboard.
- Removed deprecated APIs for legacy reconcile.
- Fixed a regression where the source / model workspace preview table was not showing its loading state while reconciling.
- The `kind` property should now automatically be included as part of the YAML config of any new resource created in Rill (e.g. sources, dashboards, etc.)
- Removed sources and models as available resources that can be added in Rill Developer when using either ClickHouse or Druid as the OLAP engine.
- Improved terminology in the UI to indicate that a resource is "building" instead of "ingesting" whenever a resource is reconciling while preserving the latter terminology for sources.
- Fixed bug where having multiple unnest dimensions would result in a blank screen being shown in the preview and cause the dashboard to hang.
- Improved the Table Explorer UX within Rill Developer so that clicking on the table entry will now show / hide the table's schema.
- Addressed certain alignment issues in the UI to add more consistency.
- Fixed bug where occasionally switching to the Last 3 Months time range for ClickHouse-backed dashboards could cause the dashboard to hang.
- Fixed issue where dimension names were not always populating correctly in the pivot table when using "Start Pivot" from the time dimension detail view.
- Fixed issue where opening an example dashboard could result in a blank page being shown.
- Improved the default theme file with better example colors.
- Fixed minor issue where the project title icon was sometimes missing.
- Added more consistency to the error page being shown across Rill Cloud and Rill Developer.
- SQL files will now automatically be considered to be model resource types by default within Rill Developer.
- Improved the default editor style and UX to add more consistency.
- Added syntax highlighting for markdown files.
- Improved hardening of the time dimension detail to properly handle empty results being returned from the user search bar.
- Improved hardening of Rill to better handle edge cases around renaming resources and objects.
- Added support for the `time_range_start` and `time_range_end` functions with our metrics SQL syntax.
- Added support for the `between` operator with our metrics SQL syntax.
- Added support for `ignore_paths` in the project's `rill.yaml` to indicate directory paths that should be ignored within the new file explorer UI.
- Added support for domain whitelisting at the project level (not just organization level).
- Improved the formatting of measure values used within alert emails that are received by the end user.
- Added support for inline component definitions within the dashboard YAML.