---

date: 2025-01-22
image: https://github.com/rilldata/rill/assets/5587788/b30486f6-002a-445d-8a1b-955b6ec0066d

---

# Rill 0.53 - Holiday break, performance and bug fixes

:::note
⚡ Rill Developer is a tool that makes it effortless to transform your datasets with SQL and create fast, exploratory dashboards. Rill Cloud can then help to enable shared collaboration at scale.

To [try out Rill Developer, check out these instructions](/get-started/install) and [join us over on Discord](https://discord.gg/2ubRfjC7Rh) to meet the team behind the product as well as other users. In addition, once you have a project set up in Rill Developer, you can then [deploy the project](/deploy/deploy-dashboard) and collaborate with others / invite your team members by [logging into Rill Cloud](https://ui.rilldata.com)!
:::

## Summary

The Rill team has been taking a well deserved break over the holidays but are now back in full force!  
We have been busy bug fixing, working on stability and improved our performance for ClickHouse specifically.
In addition we have switched storage mode for data ingested into Rill, so in case of a infrastructure crash we can easily recover and spin up new resources to serve your data without having to re-ingest it on different nodes within our cluster.

Stay tuned for our upcoming releases as we have lots of exciting new features in store for you!


## Bug Fixes and Misc
- Added support to deploy `.env` to Rill Cloud on deploys and redeploys
- Added parser check to rill.yaml
- Added backend support for custom Logo
- Added model executor for postgres and mysql into DuckDB
- Added model executor for s3/gcs/azure to DuckDB
- Added model executor for http to DuckDB
- Added cache use for external tables on metric views
- Updated Snowflake, Big Query, and Arrow versions for fixes
- Disabled DuckDB Community extensions. If there is an extension you'd like to use, [contact us](https://docs.rilldata.com/contact)!
- Increased displayed projects in org page
- fixed initial loading of cloud dashboard when sources still loading
- fixed delayed save issue prompting a conflict resolver
- fixed bug in visual dashboard editor unable to add measures/dimensions
- fixed bug in save content method in dashboard editor
- fixed bugs related to human readable URLs
- fixed bookmarks bug related to human readable URLs
- fixed ClickHouse protocol issue to use native protocol unless DSN is defined
- fixed pinot date bug
- fixed fallback profile icon in localhost / Rill Developer
- improved UI: Timestamp in Status page padded
- improved UI: Improvements to admin Settings page
- improved UX: additional confirmation UI on source refresh