---

date: 2025-01-30
image: https://github.com/rilldata/rill/assets/5587788/b30486f6-002a-445d-8a1b-955b6ec0066d

---

# Rill 0.54 - Bug fixes, pushing envs on deploy and many small improvements

:::note
⚡ Rill Developer is a tool that makes it effortless to transform your datasets with SQL and create fast, exploratory dashboards. Rill Cloud can then help to enable shared collaboration at scale.

To [try out Rill Developer, check out these instructions](/get-started/install) and [join us over on Discord](https://discord.gg/2ubRfjC7Rh) to meet the team behind the product as well as other users. In addition, once you have a project set up in Rill Developer, you can then [deploy the project](/deploy/deploy-dashboard) and collaborate with others / invite your team members by [logging into Rill Cloud](https://ui.rilldata.com)!
:::

## Pushing envs on deploy
Rill Developer now ensures that any local .envs are automatically pushed whenever you `rill deploy` to ensure that no credentials are left behind!

## Bug fixes and small improvements
Many bug fixes and small improvements went into this release, as well as a lot of work into features coming in the upcoming release, so stay tuned for 0.55 and beyond!

## Bug Fixes and Misc
- Added support for array and object values in human readable URL.
- Cleaned up small nits/issues in new project status page. 
- Fixed bug in Visual Metrics Editor preventing the UI from updating certain changes. 
- Fixed bug in DuckDB settings being permanently set
- Fixed bug in Distributed ClickHouse table resulting in error: table not found. 
- Fixed bug in dashboard filter, selecting out would apply a 0 filter.
- Fixed bug where old table remained in cloud storage during rename.
- Fixed bug where certain error pages in Rill Cloud would be too generic.