---

date: 2025-02-25
image: https://github.com/rilldata/rill/assets/5587788/b30486f6-002a-445d-8a1b-955b6ec0066d

---

# Rill 0.56 - Favicons, API for embedded dashboards, query data from the CLI

:::note
⚡ Rill Developer is a tool that makes it effortless to transform your datasets with SQL and create fast, exploratory dashboards. Rill Cloud can then help to enable shared collaboration at scale.

To [try out Rill Developer, check out these instructions](/get-started/install) and [join us over on Discord](https://discord.gg/2ubRfjC7Rh) to meet the team behind the product as well as other users. In addition, once you have a project set up in Rill Developer, you can then [deploy the project](/deploy/deploy-dashboard) and collaborate with others / invite your team members by [logging into Rill Cloud](https://ui.rilldata.com)!
:::

## Use your own favicon
Building on the previous release, which allowed you to upload a custom logo, you can now also upload a custom favicon to fully brand Rill as your own internal tool.

## API for embedded dashboards
There is now an API to programmatically interact with your embedded dashboards! You can listen for state changes, set and get state on demand, and unlock a wide range of possibilities—such as controlling the filter state from your own page and providing users with a predefined set of filters or views that can be managed dynamically.

## Query data from the CLI
Admins can now query data inside Rill directly from the CLI. Integrate it into your CI pipelines, write tests, or run ad-hoc queries—the sky's the limit!

## Bug Fixes and Misc
- Increased the default execution timeout for sources and models to 3 hours.  
- Added the Explore Dashboard banner to the Rill Developer preview.  
- Added more useful log output in `rill project logs`.  
- Improved UX: The environment variables activity column now has a more human-readable format.  
- Improved UX: Added a dialog to inform users of a single source/model refresh.  
- Improved UI: The user count in the Share Project UI now reflects the correct number of users after removing a user.  
- Improved UI: The Projects page is now labeled as "Projects" instead of "Overview."  
- Fixed a bug where the first deployment dashboard sometimes failed to initialize and displayed a blank dashboards page.  
- Fixed a bug where outstanding invites were not displayed correctly in notifications.  
- Fixed a bug in Rill Cloud where the "Last Updated On" value for projects was incorrect.  
- Fixed a bug where custom logos were not displayed correctly in Rill Cloud.  
- Fixed a bug where admins could not view all objects in the status page when access was restricted by row access policies.  
- Fixed a bug where a full refresh could be triggered when refreshing a single source.  
- Fixed a bug in Rill Cloud where an errored dashboard would display a loading screen instead of an error message.  
- Fixed a bug where the billing banner would clear the Explore banner. 