---

date: 2025-07-01
image: https://github.com/rilldata/rill/assets/5587788/b30486f6-002a-445d-8a1b-955b6ec0066d

---

# Rill 0.66 - Hackathon, Auto-complete in invite dialogs

:::note
⚡ Rill Developer is a tool that makes it effortless to transform your datasets with SQL and create fast, exploratory dashboards. Rill Cloud can then help enable shared collaboration at scale.

To [try out Rill Developer, check out these instructions](/get-started/install) and [join us over on Discord](https://discord.gg/2ubRfjC7Rh) to meet the team behind the product as well as other users. In addition, once you have a project set up in Rill Developer, you can then [deploy the project](/deploy/deploy-dashboard) and collaborate with others / invite your team members by [logging into Rill Cloud](https://ui.rilldata.com)!
:::

## Hackathon
Over the past two weeks, our team gathered in person for an exciting hackathon, diving deep into new ideas and rapid prototyping. It was an energizing time of collaboration, creativity, and shipping fast. We can’t wait to share the results, expect new AI-powered features to start rolling out very soon!

## Auto-complete in invite dialogs
Inviting teammates to collaborate on your Rill projects just got smoother. Our invite dialogs now include auto-complete for existing users, making it faster and easier to find and add the right people to your workspace.

## Bug Fixes and Misc
- Upgrade to DuckDB 1.3.1.
- Partition overwrite set as default incremental strategy for DuckDB.
- Add support to Update project via UI on a GitHub backed project.
- Add limits on number of filters causing long URLs failing to export, etc.
- Add support for ClickHouse environment variable DSN.
- Add editor highlight visibility.
- Add metadata to metrics_sql resolver.
- Better error messages and design improvement to ClickHouse connector.
- Improved token management CLI.
- Fixed bug where Canvas with indexes > 25 would be hidden in UI editing surface.
- Update to button for clickable dimension URL.
- Nit fixes to dimension table spacing.
- Internal changes `model_refreshed_on` refactored to `data_refreshed_on`.
