---
date: 2025-08-26
image: https://github.com/rilldata/rill/assets/5587788/b30486f6-002a-445d-8a1b-955b6ec0066d
---

# Rill 0.70 – Stability and bug fixes release 👷

:::note
⚡ **Rill Developer** lets you transform datasets with SQL and build fast, exploratory dashboards. **Rill Cloud** enables collaboration at scale.


To [try out Rill Developer, check out these instructions](/get-started/install) and [join us on Discord](https://discord.gg/2ubRfjC7Rh) to meet the team behind the product as well as other users. Once you have a project set up in Rill Developer, you can [deploy the project](/deploy/deploy-dashboard) and collaborate with others by [logging into Rill Cloud](https://ui.rilldata.com)!

:::


## Stability and bug fixes
This release we have focused on stability and bug fixes so no new features in this release. Stay tuned for 0.71 though, lots of exciting new things on the horizon!


## Bug Fixes and Misc
- Added `schema_name` to live MotherDuck Connector.
- Added ability to create models from connector to specific data sources!
- Security Policies can be tested when only project level policies are defined in Rill Developer.
- New Time Syntax fixes and stability improvement
- Fixed Managed ClickHouse on Linux.
- Fixed bug where specific timestamp profiles were not shown in Rill Developer model panel.
- Fixed bug in MotherDuck Connector not showing dropdown of tables in metrics view.
- Fixed bug with empty `dev:` override.
- Fixed bug where dashboards were not shown but no project error due to dashboard refresh date.
- You may be prompted to re-login as we implemented a new session timeout!