---
date: 2025-09-09
image: https://github.com/rilldata/rill/assets/5587788/b30486f6-002a-445d-8a1b-955b6ec0066d
---

# Rill 0.71 – Embed API for Canvas, automatic credential syncing, simpler connection forms, and navigation in embeds!

:::note
⚡ **Rill Developer** lets you transform datasets with SQL and build fast, exploratory dashboards. **Rill Cloud** enables collaboration at scale.

👉 [Install Rill Developer](/home/install) • [Join our Discord](https://discord.gg/TatjVY32) • [Deploy to Rill Cloud](/deploy/deploy-dashboard)
:::

## Use the Embed API with Canvas
The Embed API now supports Canvas dashboards! You can listen for changes, and set or get dashboard state directly from the embedding page. Stay tuned—more methods are coming soon.

## Start Rill Developer with automatic credential syncing
When you run `rill start`, Rill will now automatically pull the latest credentials from Rill Cloud if you’re authenticated.  
No more starting a project only to realize your local credentials are out of date!

## Configure connections with simpler forms
Many of our connector forms have gotten a facelift—they’re now cleaner and easier to configure.

## Navigate Explore dashboards in embeds
When setting `navigation: true` for embeds, Canvas dashboards now include navigation to a linked Explore dashboard for every component.

## Bug Fixes and Misc
- Canvas
  - More Charts! 
  - Better Tooltips!
- Fix embedded ClickHouse download on Linux.
- Admin users who clone projects will automatically pull env credentials on `rill start`.
- Fix search in Rill Cloud; can see all users now.
- When a user opens a report, they are taken to the pivot view, by default.
- Ability to select text in leaderboard cell values.
- Unify source and model in `rill project refresh`.
- `rill project status` shows all objects irrespective of security policies.
- Add share button in Public URL, more coming soon!
- MotherDuck Live Connector fix on metrics view; select tables in UI.
