---
title: "Splits with Data Warehouses"
description:  "Getting Started with Splits"
sidebar_label: "Data Warehouse: Splits and Incremental Models"
sidebar_position: 12
---
Another advanced concept within Rill is using [Incremental Models](https://docs.rilldata.com/build/advancedmodels/incremental). To understand incremental models, we will also need to discuss [splits](https://docs.rilldata.com/build/advancedmodels/splits). 

:::tip requirements
You will need to setup the connection to your data warehouse, depending on the connection please refer to [our documentation](https://docs.rilldata.com/reference/connectors/).

Your dataset will require a or equivalent to `updated_on` column to use.

:::


## Understanding Splits in Models

Here’s how it works at a high level:

- **Split Definition**: Each row from the result set becomes one "split". The model processes each split separately.
- **Execution Strategy**:
  - **First Split**: Runs without incremental processing.
  - **Subsequent Splits**: Run incrementally, following the output connector's `incremental_strategy` (either append or merge for SQL connectors).

### Let's create a basic split model.

1. Create a YAML file: `SQL-incremental-tutorial.yaml`

2. Use `sql:` resolver to load files from your data warehouse

```yaml
sql: >
  SELECT *
  FROM some_table_in_bq_SF_with_updated_on_column
  {{ if incremental }} WHERE updated_on > CAST(FORMAT_TIMESTAMP('%Y-%m-%d', '{{ .state.max_day }}') AS DATE) {{ end }}
```

Note that ` {{if incremental}}` is needed here as we will use this to increment over your data! As stated in the beginning, you will need an `updated_on` column to calculate the increments. 


## What is Incremental Modeling?
You can use incremental modeling to load only new data when refreshing a dataset. This becomes important when your data is large and it does not make sense to reload all the data when trying to ingest new data.


3. Add the SQL to calculate the state max day.
```yaml
incremental: true
state:
  sql: SELECT MAX(updated_on) as max_day FROM some_table_in_bq_SF_with_updated_on_column
```

This grabs the MAX value of updated_on from your table.

4. Finally, you will need to define the output and incremental stragety.

```yaml
output:
  connector: duckdb
  incremental_strategy: append
```

Please see below for the full YAML file on incremental modeling from a Data warehouse to DuckDB.
```yaml
materialize: true

connector: bigquery
#connector: snowflake

sql: >
  SELECT *
  FROM some_table_in_bq_SF_with_updated_on_column
  {{ if incremental }} WHERE updated_on > CAST(FORMAT_TIMESTAMP('%Y-%m-%d', '{{ .state.max_day }}') AS DATE) {{ end }}

incremental: true
state:
  sql: SELECT MAX(updated_on) as max_day FROM some_table_in_bq_SF_with_updated_on_column

output:
  connector: duckdb
  incremental_strategy: append
```



You now have a working incremental model that refreshed new data based on the `updated_on` key at 8AM UTC everyday. Along with writing to the default OLAP engine, DuckDB, we have also added some features to use staging tables for connectors that do not have direct read/write capabilities.

import DocsRating from '@site/src/components/DocsRating';

---
<DocsRating />