---
title: "Models"
sidebar_label: "Models"
sidebar_position: 2
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

**What is a model?**

>insert gif of a model on a runway? if we go funny route

A data model in Rill is a used to perform last mile ETL on the source data and create a <a>"One Big Table"</a> for our dashboards.

### Let's create a model from our source data

>add gif of creating model, and UI changing to model with preview

By default, the contents are auto populated with the following:

```SQL
select * from your_table
```

Let's try to make some changes to our SQL and see how the UI reacts.

```SQL
select * from your_table order by DESC
```
Notice that the preview table is automatically updated as we modify the SQL. This is due to our auto-save feature.


> another gif or video





:::tip
 
 Our Autosave feature can be enabled/disabled as needed via the rill.yaml file / project settings, or by simply selecting the toggle in the UI.

:::

### What is materialization?

By default, models created in DuckDB will be views. Both views and tables will be shown in under your DuckDB's connector table view.
>img of connectors with both table and view;

However, there are times where you’d rather materialize these as tables by adding the following to the SQL file

```yaml
-- @materialize: true
```
<details>
  <summary>Why materialize?</summary>
  
   You may experience some improved performance materializing SQL views for intermediate models in the case of complex SQL or large data.

    We generally recommend materializing finals models that power dashboards.

    However, you might experience some degradation of modeling experience [auto-save feature] for some specific situations including cross joins.

</details>


Ready to visualize our data?

